Let's go do coverage now that
we've been talking about it.
I think it's interesting
to look at coverage,
it's also cheap now to look at coverage.
It used to be hard to set up Istanbul,
it's now very easy to set it up so
I think it's useful for you to look at but
don't let it be gospel.
That's why I don't like companies to say,
we maintain 70% test coverage, silly.
It's a silly number to try and
chase, right?
But it is useful to look at the report and
see like, okay, here's a bunch of things
that I find very important about
my app that are not being covered.
That is very useful information for
you to have.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
We're gonna go back to our
package.json momentarily.
We're gonna add another script here
under vi test called test:coverage.
And I'll use vitest--coverage I believe.
Yes, yes, yes.
If you can spell, that was was a rough
go of trying to spell coverage.
All right, there we go, coverage.
Here we go.
So stop this and then I want you
to run mpm run test:coverage.
It's going to ask you,
do you wanna install something?
And just say, yes.
Just like that, do you want to
install the test coverage-c8?
The answer is yes.
Okay, it's gonna give me this really
nice little output here of like,
here's all of the files that you
are covering with your tests.
Here's how many percentage of
statements that you're covering.
How many branches?
How many functions?
How many lines?
In this particular you
can see that in catch by.
What is this?
Use breed list.
>> Fetch.
>> Fetch breed list, thank you.
Lines 11 through 13 are not covered.
So fetch breed list here 11 through 13.
We don't cover that this error
gets thrown correctly, right?
Probably okay.
So that's pretty cool but
if you go here and
there is a coverage source/coverage.
And I think there's an index.html in here,
yeah?
So open that in your browser.
This will actually give
you a nice interface.
So I can actually go in here and
click in this and I can see, okay,
this is what's not covered, right?
This was covered one time.
This was covered two times.
If we go back and
look at something like carousel,
you can see this line was hit 20 times.
That's what those Xs mean,
how many times these were hit.
So on and so forth.
So you can see all of
these files are covered.
It's giving me a really
rosy result right now but
it's not showing me all the files in
my project that are not covered, right?
So you can see here for example,
modal.jsx is totally just omitted here
cuz I don't have any tests for it.
But of the things that I
have written tests for
I have 98% test coverage
from my statements, right?
And a 100% function coverage and
so on and so forth.
So if you've ever used Istanbul or NYC
which are relatively the same thing for
the most part, this should look familiar,
this is called an L-curve report, LCOV.
I do not know what it stands for.
This is actually being generated by
a different test coverage tool called c8.
I would suggest now if you're on
Istanbul or NYC to just move to c8.
C8 is actually the built in test
coverage tool to Node.js so
it's actually built into node.
It's much faster than Istanbul.
Istanbul is single threaded and
sequential is very slow.
They made NYC which then
became multi-threaded or
at least could be run in parallel is
maybe a better way of putting that.
And then now there is c8 which is
actually built directly into Node.js
which is way faster cuz it's in C or
C++ or something like that.
But you can see here it's compatible
with test reporters for Istanbul.
So the rest of your pilot pipeline
will look exactly the same.
Okay, make sense?
Any questions about that?
Like I said, this is a very useful thing.
For me let's say I had like.
I don't know,
got looking here at fetch me this.
Let's say that this era
was very important.
I could go in here and look at my
test coverage and say like, hey,
this is critical functionality.
Now I know I need to write another test
to cover this piece of functionality
that lets me know, am I covering the
things that I find important about my app?